---
weight: 1
bookCollapseSection: true
title: "Canadian Securities Industry"
---

# Canadian Securities Industry

## Overview of the Canadian Securities Industry

## The Role of the Investment Dealer

### Types of Investment Dealers
*Investment dealers* (also called *brokers*) act as intermediaries by matching investors with the users of the capital. Each side of a transaction has its own dealer who matches the trades through the markets.

Investment dealers act on their clients’ behalf as agents in the transfer of financial instruments between different investors. They sometimes also act as principals, rather than agents. An agent, unlike a principal dealer, does not own the securities being traded.

#### Retail Firms

*Retail firms* include full-service investment dealers and self-directed brokers (also known as discount brokers). Full-service retail firms offer a wide variety of products and services for the retail investor. They also provide various levels of advice, depending on the financial and wealth management concerns of their investor clients. Self-directed brokers, on the other hand, are considered the do-it-yourself approach to investing. They execute trades for clients at reduced rates, but they do not provide investment advice.

#### Institutional Firms
*Institutional firms* are investment dealers that serve exclusively institutional clients, organizations that trade large volumes of securities. Institutional clients include pension funds and mutual funds, and may be domestic or foreign institutional firms.

In Canada, foreign firms account for about one-third of all institutional clients.

#### Integrated Firms
*Integrated firms* offer products and services across the industry and participate fully in both the retail and institutional markets. Most integrated firms underwrite all types of federal, provincial, and municipal debt, as well as corporate debt and equity issues. They are active in secondary markets, including the money market, as well as on all Canadian stock exchanges and some foreign exchanges. 

#### Investment Boutiques
Many smaller retail or institutional investment dealers, known as *investment boutiques*, specialize in particular market segments. For example, an investment boutique might specialize in stock trading, bond trading, or trading strictly in unlisted stocks.

#### References
[CIRO: Understanding Registration Categories](https://www.ciro.ca/office-investor/how-ciro-protects-investors/where-we-fit-canadian-securities-regulatory-framework/understanding-registration-categories)

### The Operational Structure of Investment Dealers

### The Principal and Agency Roles of the Investment Dealer

#### PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS

#### AGENCY TRANSACTIONS

#### SERVICES PROVIDED BY INVESTMENT DEALERS

### The Clearing System

## Other Financial Intermediaries

### Chartered Banks

### Credit Unions and Caisses Populaires

### Trust and Loan Companies


### Insurance Companies
The insurance industry has two major lines of businesses:
- life insurance, and
- property and casualty insurance.

#### Life Insurance

*Life Insurance* includes following related products:
- Health and disability insurance
- Term and whole life insurance
- Pension plans
- Registered retirement savings plans
- Annuities

Life insurance companies act as trustees for the funds entrusted to them by policyholders, therefore, they must exercise extreme caution in selecting their investments to meet future contractual obligations.

Property and casualty insurance protects following:
- Home
- Auto
- Commercial business, liability insurance, etc.

According to Insurance Bureau of Canada, the largest aggregate premiums in the Property and Casualty line of business are generated by automobile insurance, followed by property insurance and liability insurance.

*Insurance Underwriting* is the business of evaluating the risk and associated contractual responsibility that the insurance company is willing to accept in exchange for its clients’ insurance premiums.

*Reinsurance* refers to the practice of exchanging risk between insurance companies to facilitate better risk management. Reinsurance can be thought of as insurance for insurers. FOr example, Munich Re, Canada (Life), *reinsures* many Canadian and Caribbean Health and Life insurance companies.




### Other Financial Intermediaries

## Financial Market Trends

### Financial Technology

### Robo Advisors

### Social and Economic Shifts

### Cryptocurrency

## Summary
